Adding lifecycle hooks section to the docs. (#1197)
browser-use/browser-use: docs/customize/hooks.mdx

---
title: "Lifecycle Hooks"
description: "Customize agent behavior with lifecycle hooks"
icon: "Wrench"
author: "Carlos A. Planchón"
---

# Using Agent Lifecycle Hooks

Browser-Use provides lifecycle hooks that allow you to execute custom code at specific points during the agent's execution. These hooks enable you to capture detailed information about the agent's actions, modify behavior, or integrate with external systems.

## Available Hooks

Currently, Browser-Use provides the following hooks:

| Hook | Description | When it's called |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------------- |
| `on_step_start` | Executed at the beginning of each agent step | Before the agent processes the current state and decides on the next action |
| `on_step_end` | Executed at the end of each agent step | After the agent has executed the action for the current step |

## Using Hooks

Hooks are passed as parameters to the `agent.run()` method. Each hook should be a callable function that accepts the agent instance as its parameter.

### Basic Example

```python
from browser_use import Agent
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI

> async def my_step_hook(agent):
>     print(f"Agent is on URL: {agent.state.history.urls()[-1] if agent.state.history.urls() else 'No URL yet'}")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
async def my_step_hook(agent):
    # inside a hook you can access all the state and methods under the Agent object:
    #   agent.settings, agent.state, agent.task
    #   agent.controller, agent.llm, agent.browser, agent.browser_context
    #   agent.pause(), agent.resume(), agent.add_new_task(...), etc.
    
    current_page = await agent.browser_context.get_current_page()
    
    visit_log = agent.state.history.urls()
    current_url = current_page.url
    previous_url = visit_log[-2] if len(visit_log) >= 2 else None
    print(f"Agent was last on URL: {previous_url} and is now on {current_url}")
    
    if 'completed' in current_url:
        agent.pause()
        Path('result.txt').write_text(await current_page.content()) 
        input('Saved "completed" page content to result.txt, press [Enter] to resume...')
        agent.resume()
```
